.\" Copyright (C) Branko Bratkovic 1998, 1999
.\" This file is free software and is covered by the GNU General
.\" Public License.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  
.\"
.\" For more details see the GNU General Public License (GPL) in
.\" the docs directory.
.TH apl 1 "25 July 1999" "openAPL"
.SH NAME
apl (A Programming Language) 
.SH SYNOPSIS
apl
[
.I -help | -h
] [
.I -on
] [
.I -off
] [
.I -setup
] [
.I -n
] [ arguments to apl11 ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
The language APL uses a special character set.
.I apl
will create a terminal that provides this character set.
Then if -on, -off or -n were specified an exit is taken. 
Otherwise, the working directory is set to $HOME/apl
(creating 'apl' in the users home directory if necessary)
and the executable
.I apl11 
is invoked with any remaining options.  
.I apl
supports two interfaces: the Linux console and X11.


.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B " -help | -h "
provide a summary of command line options.

.TP
.B " -on "
create a terminal that provides the APL character set, 
but apl11 is not started.

.TP
.B " -off "
return the character set back to default (Linux console only).
Normally, 
.I apl
will set the console back to default when the session has
finished.  There are two situations in which the
.B -off
option may be necessary.  One: if abnormal termination has
prevented the default being replaced.  Two: you may be
switching between virtual consoles during a running APL
session. 

.TP
.B " -n "
like make -n , display the internal variables but
nothing actually gets done.
Useful when making changes to /etc/apl.sh or ~/.aplrc .

.TP
.B " -setup "
configure the user environment
including creation of ~/.aplrc file
and selection of function editors.


.SH CONFIGURATION
.LP
If the file
.I ~/.inputrc
exists and looks as if it may have been configured to support
8 bit clean input and output via readline, then the flag 
.I -r
will be passed to apl11.  If apl11 has been compiled with
readline support, then command line editing and history
will be available.  
See readline(1) or bash(1) for more information about 
readline command input.

The files
.I /etc/apl.sh
and
.I ~/.aplrc
are sourced after internal variables are created, 
but before any actions are taken.  
This enables the system administrator or user to customise things 
such as the location of support files (fonts and keyboard maps).
WARNING: do not put anything in these files that would write
to stdout because these files are sourced by the print filers
.I apl2epson
and
.I apl2gs
which pipe stdout to a printer.

You can edit these files in order to modify any variables
that appear in:
.I apl
,
.I apl2epson
, and
.I apl2gs

.SH NOTES
.LP
The X11 interface will change the keyboard mapping table.
This is a global effect that may impact on other applications
running under the same X11 session. 
Specifically, the modifier map has the Mode_Switch action
assigned to the right ALT key, 
and many of the numeric and alpha keys are assigned APL
characters under the switched mode.

.LP
The Linux console interface uses the kbd package and requires
loadkeys(1) to function.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
apl11(1), loadkeys(1), xmodmap(1)

