.\" Copyright (C) Branko Bratkovic 1998, 1999
.\" This file is free software and is covered by the GNU General
.\" Public License.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  
.\"
.\" For more details see the GNU General Public License (GPL) in
.\" the docs directory.
.TH apl11 1 "20 June 1999" "openAPL"
.SH NAME
apl11 (A Programming Language) 
.SH SYNOPSIS
apl11
[
.I options
] workspace to load

.SH DESCRIPTION
.I apl11
is an implementation of APL that has been around since the 1970's.
This incarnation has been developed to run on Linux, X11
and any emulated terminal that can support eight bit characters
and the unique APL font.  It also has an ascii-only mode, in
which short ascii character sequences are mapped to APL characters.


.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B " -e "
echo input lines.

.TP
.B " -q "
do not echo input lines.

.TP
.B " -c | C "
leave a core dump upon fatal error.

.TP
.B " -d | D "
Disregard signals. 

.TP
.B " -r "
Use readline for user input.  
If apl11 has been compiled with
readline support, then command line editing and history
will be available.
This option exists because the user must have a file in
his or her home directory called .inputrc and containing
the appropriate statements to cause readline to deal with
8-bit characters.  If the user has not created such a file
then readline would block the special APL characters.  By 
including -r with the command line options, the user must 
have understood why it is required.  However, the apl shell
script can be expected to to check for the .inputrc file 
and provide -r if appropriate.  Therefore, in most cases
it will be transparant to the user.
See readline(1) or bash(1) for more information about
readline command input.

.TP
.B " -t "
Create temporary files in $CWD rather than in /tmp .

.TP
.B " -a "
Use standard 7-bit ASCII, and translate character sequences
to the special APL characters.  For the most part, the character
sequences match the locations of characters on an APL keyboard,
except that the "@" character (which is not used in APL) is used
instead of backspace.  For example, upper-case "R" maps to the APL
"rho" character.  "O@*" maps to the apl "log" character.

.TP
.B " -s "
Secure mode: no update of external files is permitted.

.SH NOTES
.LP
Normally keyboard input is not echoed to the screen as 
this is the responsibility of the terminal emulator. 
However if 
.I apl11
finds that its input has been redirected, it will echo its
input.
The options
.I -e
and 
.I -q
are available to override this behaviour.

.LP
.I apl11
must be run inside an emulated APL terminal,
.I apl(1)
usually provides this service.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
apl(1)

