.\" Copyright (C) Branko Bratkovic 1998
.\" This file is free software and is covered by the GNU General
.\" Public License.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  
.\"
.\" For more details see the GNU General Public License (GPL) in
.\" the docs directory.
.TH apl2epson 1 "6 December 1998" "openAPL"
.SH NAME
apl2epson
.SH SYNOPSIS
apl2epson
[
.I options to fontprint
] 
[ filename ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
The language APL uses a special character set.
.I apl2epson
is a print filter that will convert APL text 
(which must be encoded by the 2741 system used in openAPL)
into a binary file suitable for printing on an epson 
compatible printer. 
If a filename is provided, that file will be converted,
otherwise stdin is used.

.SH OPTIONS
.I apl2epson
uses fontprint(1), so any options provided on the 
command line will be passed to fontprint.

.SH CONFIGURATION
.LP
If the files 
.I /etc/apl.sh
or 
.I .aplrc
(in the users home directory) exit,
they will be sourced after internal variables are created, 
but before any actions are taken.  
This enables the system administrator or user to specify a list
of options to pass to fontprint.

.SH NOTES
.LP
Fontprint can be used to create GIF images of text in lieu
of epson graphics.  
By using the applicable command line switches, 
.I apl2epson
could be used to create the same result.
See fontprint(1).

.SH "SEE ALSO"
apl(1), apl11(1), fontprint(1)

